Hello everyone. How are you?
Good. Okay. Amazing. Welcome to the last
workshop session of the day. I hope you
have all enjoyed the very first day of
code with Claude. Uh my name is Maya.
I'm a member of our applied AI team here
at Enthropic. Uh what that means is I
spend about half my time developing our
own firstparty products and features and
the other half of my time helping
customers develop their very own
products, features, agents on top of our
models.
Today I'm here to talk to you about how
to build a proactive agent workflow with
cloud code. Um, can I get a show of
hands? Who has used our routines feature
inside of Cloud Code? All right, some
folks over here. Awesome. Awesome. Um,
that's what I'm going to be talking
about today. Okay, so first off, a
question for the group here. Who has
tried to run clawed code on a cron? Can
I get a show of hands? Folks, put your
hands up high. Awesome. Awesome. Um, now
keep your hands up if you've enjoyed
building all of that infra and
maintaining that job. All right, we have
one guy back there. We have one guy.
Thank you. Thank you for your effort.
Thank you for your work. Um, we felt
similar pain internally at Anthropic as
we tried to develop uh proactive agents
uh that run on cloud code. Uh, and we
decided to do something about it.
So, we believe that coding agents
shouldn't wait for you to press enter to
get started. Right now, Claude code is a
really powerful coding tool, but we want
to take Claude code and turn it into a
really powerful coding teammate.
A teammate notices when something breaks
and does something about it. Right now,
a tool waits for you to enter your
prompt and actually press enter.
So the goal of today's presentation is
to talk about how we have created this
feature called routines to take clawed
code from a tool today um into the
teammate of tomorrow.
So today we'll be talking about four
things. I'll go through some of the
challenges that you folks have felt uh
building proactive agents today. I'll go
through this new feature inside of cloud
code called routines.
We'll go through a real example about
how we use routines internally at
Enthropic to automate documentation
creation and then finally we'll talk
about applying routines to your own
workflows.
So
I want to talk first through the
challenges with building proactive
agents today. We all know it's doable.
Um but I want to talk about what what's
a little bit cumbersome with this.
The first thing that's a little bit
difficult with building proactive agents
today is deciding where these agents
should run. You probably don't want them
running on your local machine because if
you close your laptop or your laptop
dies, your agent session is done. What
that means is you'll need to manage
things like hosting, data persistence,
and authentication.
Basically, you'll need to build a whole
infrastruct outside of your prompts,
which is doable, but it's a lot of work
and there's a lot of boilerplate code
there.
The next thing you'll need to do is
figure out when to actually kick off
these sessions and trigger these agents.
Again, you can build things and build on
top of cron or you can do things like uh
post to endpoints that you have to spin
up. Um, but again, there's there's a lot
of infra that you need to build yourself
here.
Finally, the challenge with building
proactive agents today is sometimes you
want to be a human in the loop, but
other times you want to be a human out
of the loop with these agents. Um, right
now when you kick off a headless clawed
code session, it's often hard to figure
out what your agent is actually doing in
real time. There's no way to watch,
steer, bound, or even resume your agent
session. It's it's difficult to do that.
Um, so we wanted to address each of
these three issues um, and build
routines. Routines is a brand new
feature inside of Cloud Code. It's an
automation where you can kick off a
remote Claude code session by only
defining the prompt, what repos you want
to connect it to, what connectors it has
available to work with, and a trigger.
Claude Code handles the rest.
So there were three kind of main things
we were thinking about as we went ahead
and developed this routines feature
inside of cloud code.
The first thing is that we wanted these
agents to be always available.
These agents these routines run on
claude codes managed infrastructure. And
what what's nice with that is that we
deal with the hosting the session state
and the connector off for you. nothing
depends on your laptop being opened and
we deal uh with all of the cloud stuff
for you which I think is quite nice. The
next thing is we want these agents to be
able to work proactively with
customizable triggers. You might want to
kick them off on a timebased schedule or
you might want to work uh event based.
uh we have the ability to work natively
with GitHub events as well as your own
custom events that you can post to um
web hooks and endpoints with the event
payload as context.
Finally, and the last point that I think
is really nice is that these clawed code
sessions that get get launched with
these routines are interactive and
steerable as if you were launching
claude code in the terminal. Every
routine is really just a claude code
session under the hood that you can
open, you can watch, follow up on,
steer, and resume um from web CLI and
desktop.
And so I want to walk you guys through a
real use case that uh we use here at
Enthropic internally. So the question
for us and for a member of our
engineering team is how can we automate
docs creation with routines?
So, just to add a little bit of data
behind this, weekly PRs for Claude Code
have gone up 200% since the beginning of
the new year. This has been super
awesome for our Claude Code engineering
team. Um, their productivity is insane.
This has been really awesome for you
folks because you get new features
inside of Claude Code very, very
quickly.
The one person that this has not been so
awesome for is the one engineer
responsible for maintaining our
documentation across cloud code and the
agent SDK. And so when routines
launched, she was a super big fan and
early adopter. And I want to walk you
through how she set up a couple routines
to help automate documentation creation
for cloud code and our cloud agent SDK.
So on my side here, I have the terminal
open. And I encourage you all to open
your terminal and launch cloud code.
And inside of the terminal here, I'm
able to type what we see on the screen
here, slash schedule, and actually type
in something that Sarah, our
documentation uh queen, uh has done to
actually set up this routine. So she
went and typed in once a week uh please
review all the new changes merged to
main against our documentation repo and
create a PR to update docs if you see
any changes.
I encourage you folks to think right now
what are some tasks that you do every
day that would help if they could run on
a schedule or if cla could actually
initiate these sessions for you. Um I
encourage you to think about that.
After kicking this off inside of Claude
code, Claude comes back and prompts me
with a couple questions. It might ask,
"Hey Maya, at what time every week do
you want me to actually kick this off?"
Or once I create a PR, do you want me to
notify you in any way? Maybe ping you on
Slack. And once I answer these
questions, Claude actually goes ahead
and creates a routine um that we'll view
in a little bit inside of Claude Code on
the web.
But first, I want to walk through the
three main decisions you'll need to make
as you create any routine. The first
decision is you'll need to figure out
when your routine should trigger.
What's actually the event or is there a
certain cadence that you want this to
run?
The second decision is what context or
what information does Claude need to
have to actually be successful here? Do
you need access to certain docs or does
Claude need access to certain tools to
ping you?
Finally, the last thing to think about
is how do you actually steer Claude in
the session to keep it honest? How do
you guide claude to the output that you
want? And so we'll dive into each one of
these and I'll talk through how Sarah, a
member uh of our team, actually does
this to automate documentation creation.
So the first one is the trigger. When uh
should this event actually run? So
inside of routines, there's basically
two ways to do this. You can have things
kick off on a schedule on a timebased
trigger.
For that earlier example I showed you,
uh this is how we do a weekly review of
differences between our source code for
cloud code as well as our documentation
repo.
You can also have routines kick off uh
on an event-based cadence. So maybe
every time a release is cut, uh you can
diff the release branch against the docs
and see if there's any new features that
you'll need to spin up PRs for in our
documentation repo.
Or maybe your engineer is actually
deploying uh changes and creating PRs
might tag their changes. Maybe this is
like a new feature. They could tag it
with a label that says need docs. And
you could actually kick off clawed code
sessions anytime one of these uh labeled
PRs get merged.
The next thing you'll need to think
about is context.
What does your agent actually need to
know to be successful?
Likely you'll need to give it access to
either one or more codebase repos. So
for this docs example, uh we need to
give Claude access to not only our
claude code source code to figure out
what new changes exist there, but also
our docs repo, right? For claude to
actually create uh new PRs there.
Next, you might want to provide
additional context to these sessions. Uh
maybe for this one example, I want
Claude to have access to all of our
existing marketing briefs. Maybe I want
Claude to use similar language and
verbiage that we use uh in other
marketing materials externally at
Enthropic. So maybe all of this lives
inside of Google Drive and I'll want to
give Claude access to these files during
the session. So I'll hook up the drive
connector.
Or maybe anytime Claude creates a PR, um
I'll actually want it to ping me on
Slack. Uh so I'll give it access to the
Slack connector. It's important to think
about this as you're setting up the
routine because whatever context Claude
has, that's uh the ceiling of how
successful Claude will be.
Finally, the last thing to think about
here is steerability.
How do we actually ensure the quality um
of Claude's outputs?
There are a couple ways to do this. Um,
one thing that I think is quite
interesting is to actually invest in
agent onagent review. If folks have
actually designed multi- aent systems
here and have heard of the generator uh
critique pattern, uh this is something
that we've borrowed here. You can
actually set up one routine to go ahead
and create uh docs PRs and you can set
up another routine that maybe triggers
on that PR's creation um to actually go
ahead and leave comments on the PR
before a human actually gets to it.
Another option we had emphasized it's
nice to have a human out of the loop,
but sometimes you actually do need to
monitor these cloud code sessions and
maybe nudge Claude in a different
direction. What's really nice and what
I'll show you in a second is that you
can actually open Claude Code on the web
and you can view what's happening inside
of a live session as if you would
working with Claude in the terminal. You
can ask it questions midsession. You can
push it in another another direction.
You you can also resume a past routine
or a past session and continue the
conversation.
Finally, the last thing we do and what I
think is quite obvious is that we verify
Claude's outputs. For this documentation
example, we actually render the page
that or the documentation page that
Claude has changed and created and we
confirm those outputs are what we
expect.
And so now I'll jump back into that
initial routine that we've kicked off
here in this demo. Um, and we'll jump to
the demo slides. Awesome. And so we can
see right now I'm in cloud.ai AI and I
can go over to this left side panel and
actually kick click on this uh code
button
and I can jump into routines on this
left hand side and I can actually click
on this routine that I had created
earlier.
On the left hand side here you can see
that it's connected to two repositories.
our uh mocked up Cloud Code source code
as well as our Cloud Code documentation.
You can see that this runs every Monday
at 10 a.m. and it's connected to GitHub
as well as Slack.
These instructions here on the right
hand side Claude generated for me based
on the initial prompt that I pasted in
and the questions that I answered. We
can see here that uh this is a a weekly
documentation sync uh for our claude
code fork.
And I can actually go ahead and click on
a session here. And I can see that these
initial instructions are what uh gets
pasted in for the very beginning of this
Claude code session.
We can see that Claude has read these
instructions and started by looking at
the source code repository to see uh any
changes, any recent PRs that have been
merged. Looked at our change log and
compared that to what's inside of the
documentation repo.
We can see Claude's actually found some
changes here and gone ahead and opened a
PR for me.
This is one example where you can kick
off a routine on a schedule.
Now I want to show you another example
where we can actually kick off a routine
uh based on a GitHub event. So here I've
actually created a new routine and I've
already filled some of this in. Um I
want to make uh another documentation
automation uh routine and but this time
I want this to actually trigger every
time I create a new GitHub issue.
So I pasted in some instructions here
basically to investigate the issue that
this session triggers on. Figure out if
it's related to a documentation gap and
then if it is and if you believe that
this is a gap um go ahead open a PR and
actually ping me in this channel. So
I've gone ahead and connected our cloud
code documentation repo as well as our
source code again. And I want to show
you how I actually set up this trigger.
Like I had mentioned before, there's two
different types of triggers. Um,
schedulebased and event based. And
within event-based triggers, we have
native git github events supported here
as well as the ability to trigger from
your own code by sending a post request.
So here I'll create a uh GitHub event
trigger and trigger on issue opens
anytime I open an issue inside of this
cloud code documentation repo. And I
want this connected to Slack so I can
send me a ping anytime I make a PR um as
well as our GitHub MCP.
So I will go ahead and create this here.
And now let's make sure that this is
working. So I have a new issue open here
that I'm about to create inside of our
Cloud Code Docs repo. Um so I happen to
know that there are a few few tools
missing from docs in this new version.
So I'm going to go ahead and actually
create this
So I can see here that I've gone ahead
and created that. And now let's refresh
this page.
And we can see actually that a new run
has gotten picked up here. We can see
that these initial instructions are the
very first prompt. Um and we can see
that this additional context from this
issuer passed in as well.
I happen to know that I actually already
have another PR open for this. So, let
me just guide Claude to stop this
session.
I've already made these changes
and we can see here the ability to
actually steer Claude in real time after
routine gets kicked off.
Awesome. Um, now let's come back and
talk about the different ways uh that we
can use routines to actually automate
your challenges. As uh developers, I
want to talk through um a couple ways
that we could turn common software
engineering or developer challenges into
routines with quad code.
The first one I want to talk through is
this deploy verifier. Um maybe you have
recently uh just deployed changes to an
to a service and you want to make sure
that this service is healthy and you
shouldn't roll back these changes.
I want to think about this uh in three
ways. First, what should my trigger be
here? Second, what context is important
to provide to Claude in this routine?
And lastly, how do I plan to actually
interact or steer this routine to keep
Claude honest?
I happen to know that my CD pipeline can
post after every deploy. So, this seems
like a pretty good trigger to actually
kick off this routine on. I can actually
post to this uh web hook that we support
inside of routines. And this can
actually kick off my Claude code
session.
In terms of what context I think is
important to provide Claude here, I can
think of a couple things. one, it's
probably nice to give Claude access to
the source code for the service that we
reach recently deployed on.
Next, it's probably important to give
Claude access to monitoring tools. Maybe
that's data dog, maybe that's Graphana,
I don't know what you folks use, but um
likely helpful to give Claude access to
these uh monitoring tools. And maybe if
something goes down, I want Claude to
alert me. I want Claude to ping me on
Slack or send me an email um or maybe
maybe even send me a text using Twilio
or something like that. These are some
of the connectors or the tools that I
would give Claude access to inside of
this session.
In terms of keeping Claude honest or
actually steering my session, maybe I'd
start by having Claude run an
investigation for me and giving me an
eventual no go or no-go decision to
actually roll back this change. I could
jump into Claude code on the web and
actually view and read Claude's analysis
for this session. Then maybe I can
continue to work with Claude if I
actually think that this should be
rolled back and actually use Claude to
help me roll back a change.
Maybe eventually as I watch Claude work
more and more and trust its decisions, I
can let Claude roll back the change
itself if based on the monitoring
monitoring uh data it has access to. Uh
if I deem that that's the right
decision.
There are other challenges like maybe
you want to build an on call
investigator or maybe you're actually a
PM and your job is to go through uh a
lot a lot of issues inside of your
backlog. Maybe that's GitHub issues.
Maybe that's posts inside of a Slack
channel and maybe you want to kick off a
weekly job that actually reads through
all of these issues. Um maybe it's
kicked off on a timebased trigger. You
give it access to GitHub and Slack and
wherever your issues live. Um, and you
use Claude to actually help you
prioritize and maybe open PRs for the
most important issues. Okay, my final
takeaways here, uh, proactive agents,
uh, beat reactive agents. We want Claw
to go from a tool to a teammate. Um, you
can move from an agent that is waiting
for you to actually press enter and
create a PR to an agent that reacts to
problems um, and opens a PR itself.
We built routines so you don't have to
focus on maintaining all of this infra,
but instead you can actually concentrate
on your domain and process expertise.
This is what routines handle for you.
And finally, I encourage you to get
started with routines today. Uh you're a
single slashcchedule command uh inside
of Claude Code uh away from creating
your very first routine.
Awesome. Thanks so much,